README.md, before:


<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=3 bracket=round autoanchor=false autolink=true -->

- [Categories](#categories)
    - [ack](#ack)
    - [Bash](#bash)
    - [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
    - [carton](#carton)
    - [CPAN](#cpan)
    - [cpanm](#cpanm)
    - [curl](#curl)
    - [Debian](#debian)
    - [Docker](#docker)
    - [httpie](#httpie)
    - [Jenkins](#jenkins)
    - [jq](#jq)
    - [FileMerge.app](#filemergeapp)
    - [Git](#git)
    - [grep](#grep)
    - [JSON](#json)
    - [Liquid Prompt](#liquid-prompt)
    - [Mail.app](#mailapp)
    - [Markdown](#markdown)
    - [Mojolicious](#mojolicious)
    - [Oracle](#oracle)
    - [OSX](#osx)
    - [Perl](#perl)
    - [Postgresql](#postgresql)
    - [Python](#python)
    - [smartcd](#smartcd)
    - [Sublime Text 3](#sublime-text-3)
    - [Subversion](#subversion)
    - [SQL Developer](#sql-developer)
    - [SQLite](#sqlite)
    - [sqlplus](#sqlplus)
    - [Swift](#swift)
    - [Terminal.app](#terminalapp)
    - [tmux](#tmux)
    - [VMware Fusion](#vmware-fusion)
    - [XML](#xml)
    - [YAML](#yaml)
- [About](#about)
- [Additional TIL Collections](#additional-til-collections)
- [License](#license)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->


## Categories


### ack

- [Install ack](ack/install_ack.md)
- [Define a custom search filetype scope](ack/define_a_custom_search_filetype_scope.md)


### Bash

- [Implement tab completions](bash/implement_tab_completions.md)
- [Inputting danish characters](bash/inputting_danish_characters.md)
- [Repeating an executable continuously](bash/repeating_an_executable_continuously.md)
- [Slimming history](bash/slimming_history.md)
- [Reading arguments from the command line](bash/reading_cli_arguments.md)
- [Copy a file to multiple directories](bash/copy_a_file_to_multiple_directories.md)


### Bootstrap

- [Prevent wrapping of contents of code tags](bootstrap/prevent_wrapping_of_contents_of_code_tags.md)


### carton

- [Use carton](carton/use_carton.md)
- [Pass flags to arguments to exec](carton/pass_flags_to_arguments_to_exec.md)
- [Update snapshot cpanfile](carton/update_snapshot_cpanfile.md)


### CPAN

- [Data::FormValidator](cpan/data-formvalidator.md)
- [Test::Pretty](cpan/test-pretty.md)


### cpanm

- [Use cpanm](cpanm/use_cpanm.md)
- [Use cpanm with cpanfile](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_cpanfile.md)
- [Use cpanm with Module::Build](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_module-build.md)
- [Use cpanm with CPAN::Mini](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_cpan-mini.md)
- [Use cpanm with carton](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_carton.md)
- [Tailing cpanm build log file](cpanm/tailing_cpanm_build_logfile.md)


### curl

- [More POST Parameters](curl/more_post_parameters.md)
- [Handling shell sensitive characters in URL](curl/handling_shell_sensitive_characters_in_url.md)


### Debian

- [How to enquire version](debian/how_to_enquire_version.md)
- [Add user to sudoers group](debian/add_user_to_sudoers.md)
- [Resolve conflicting values in Debian package](debian/resolve_conflicting_values_in_package.md)


### Docker

- [Mount shared folder](docker/mount_shared_folder.md)
- [Use shell to inspect filesystem of layer](docker/use_shell_for_layer.md)
- [How to read files and stdout from a running docker container](docker/how_to_read_files_and_stdout_from_a_running_docker_container.md)


### httpie

- [Use httpie](httpie/use_httpie.md)


### Jenkins

- [Use a script for freestyle projects](jenkins/use_a_script_for_freestyle_projects.md)


### jq

- [Use jq](jq/use_jq.md)


### FileMerge.app

- [User Filemerge from the commandline](filemergeapp/use_filemerge_from_cli.md)


### Git

- [Resolve conflicts involving binary files](git/resolve_conflicts_involving_binary_files.md)
- [Delete local and remote branch](git/delete_local_and_remote_branch.md)
- [Set your email for a repository](git/set_your_email_for_a_repo.md)
- [Delete local and remote tags](git/delete_local_and_remote_tags.md)
- [Create a branch from a tag](git/create_branch_from_tag.md)
- [Correct a commit message](git/correct_a_commit_message.md)
- [Update a branch from master](git/update_branch_from_master.md)
- [Rename branch](git/rename_branch.md)
- [Get a cheatsheet](git/get_a_cheatsheet.md) 
- [Update fork from original repository](git/update_fork_from_original_repository.md)
- [Tag a specific revision](git/tag_a_specific_revision.md)


### grep

- [Add colour to grep output](grep/add_colour_to_grep.md)


### JSON

- [Beware of eval](json/beware_of_eval.md)


### Liquid Prompt

- [Install Liquid Prompt](liquidprompt/install_liquidprompt.md)


### Mail.app

- [Mail file from the commandline](mailapp/mail_file_from_cli.md)


### Markdown

- [Use Markdown](markdown/use_markdown.md)


### Mojolicious

- [Redirecting from one URL to another](mojolicous/redirecting_from_one_url_to_another.md)
- [Setting up a new application](mojolicious/setting_up_a_new_app.md)
- [Enable logging](mojolicious/enable_logging.md)


### Oracle

- [Convert string to date](oracle/convert_string_to_date.md)
- [ORA-21561: OID generation failed](oracle/ora-21561.md)
- [Beware of for force for creation](oracle/beware_of_force_for_creation.md)
- [How to see Oracle version](oracle/howto_see_oracle_version.md)


### OSX

- [Lock screen shortcuts](osx/lock_screen_shortcuts.md)
- [Speak when long running job is done](osx/speak_when_long_running_job_is_done.md)
- [List available voices for speechsynthesis](osx/list_available_voices_for_speechsynthesis.md)
- [Set hostname permanently](osx/set_hostname_permanently.md)
- [Access iCloud from the cli](osx/access_icloud_drive_from_cli.md)
- [Install Homebrew](osx/install_homebrew.md)

### Perl

- [View generated SQL when using DBIx::Class](perl/view_generated_sql_when_using_dbix-class.md)
- [Create Test Coverage Report Using Dist::Zilla](perl/create_test_coverage_report_uzing_dist-zilla.md)


### Postgresql

- [Setting the prompt](postgresql/setting_the_prompt.md)


### Python

- [Old-school string formatting](python/old-school_string_formatting.md)


### smartcd

- [Install smartcd](smartcd/install_smartcd.md)
- [Use smartcd with tabs](smartcd/use_with_tabs.md)


### Sublime Text 3

- [Set colour scheme per language](sublimetext3/set_colour_scheme_per_language.md)


### Subversion

- [Do something with every repository](subversion/do_something_every_repo.md)
- [See in what revision a branch was created](subversion/see_in_what_revision_was_a_branch_created.md)
- [Use Filemerge as diff tool](subversion/use_filemerge_for_diff.md)
- [Use commit message from file](subversion/use_commit_message_from_file.md)


### SQL Developer

- [Setting UI fontsize](sqldeveloper/setting_ui_fontsize.md)


### SQLite

- [Emulate schemas](sqlite/emulate_schemas.md)
- [Inserting dates](sqlite/insert_dates.md)


### sqlplus

- [Output to a file](sqlplus/outputting_to_a_file.md)


### Swift

- [Learn Swift](swift/learn_swift.md)


### Terminal.app

- [Opening files in an application from the command line](terminal/opening_files_in_applications_from_the_cli.md)


### tmux

- [Install tmux](tmux/install_tmux.md)


### VMware Fusion

- [Install VMware Tools](fusion/install_vmware_tools.md)
- [Configure Debian 7](fusion/mount_shared_folder.md)


### XML

- [Avoid entity expansion](xml/avoid_entity_expansion.md)


### YAML

- [How to syntax check a YAML file](yaml/howto_syntax_check_a_yaml_file.md)


## About

I have for a long time maintained notes in a public wiki, finding the TIL of 
Josh Branchaud [jbranchaud/til](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til) was an eye-opener and I immiediately wanted to try it out, so after a few months I have finally set it up.

I plan to migrate my earlier notes, so they are more easily accessible here as TIL snippets, this will be done when I have the time, one TIL at a time :-)


## Additional TIL Collections

* [Today I Learned by Hashrocket](https://til.hashrocket.com)
* [jwworth/til](https://github.com/jwworth/til)
* [thoughtbot/til](https://github.com/thoughtbot/til)


## License

&copy; 2016 jonasbn

This repository is licensed under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. Much is lifted from elsewhere and might by copyrighted under other licenses by the respective authors. I will mention this where applicable and I will link to original sources if possible.

Commit message:

Added first tip/til on Dropbox

README.md, after:


<!-- MarkdownTOC depth=3 bracket=round autoanchor=false autolink=true -->

- [Categories](#categories)
    - [ack](#ack)
    - [Bash](#bash)
    - [Bootstrap](#bootstrap)
    - [carton](#carton)
    - [CPAN](#cpan)
    - [cpanm](#cpanm)
    - [curl](#curl)
    - [Debian](#debian)
    - [Docker](#docker)
    - [Dropbox](#dropbox)
    - [httpie](#httpie)
    - [Jenkins](#jenkins)
    - [jq](#jq)
    - [FileMerge.app](#filemergeapp)
    - [Git](#git)
    - [grep](#grep)
    - [JSON](#json)
    - [Liquid Prompt](#liquid-prompt)
    - [Mail.app](#mailapp)
    - [Markdown](#markdown)
    - [Mojolicious](#mojolicious)
    - [Oracle](#oracle)
    - [OSX](#osx)
    - [Perl](#perl)
    - [Postgresql](#postgresql)
    - [Python](#python)
    - [smartcd](#smartcd)
    - [Sublime Text 3](#sublime-text-3)
    - [Subversion](#subversion)
    - [SQL Developer](#sql-developer)
    - [SQLite](#sqlite)
    - [sqlplus](#sqlplus)
    - [Swift](#swift)
    - [Terminal.app](#terminalapp)
    - [tmux](#tmux)
    - [VMware Fusion](#vmware-fusion)
    - [XML](#xml)
    - [YAML](#yaml)
- [About](#about)
- [Additional TIL Collections](#additional-til-collections)
- [License](#license)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->


## Categories


### ack

- [Install ack](ack/install_ack.md)
- [Define a custom search filetype scope](ack/define_a_custom_search_filetype_scope.md)


### Bash

- [Implement tab completions](bash/implement_tab_completions.md)
- [Inputting danish characters](bash/inputting_danish_characters.md)
- [Repeating an executable continuously](bash/repeating_an_executable_continuously.md)
- [Slimming history](bash/slimming_history.md)
- [Reading arguments from the command line](bash/reading_cli_arguments.md)
- [Copy a file to multiple directories](bash/copy_a_file_to_multiple_directories.md)


### Bootstrap

- [Prevent wrapping of contents of code tags](bootstrap/prevent_wrapping_of_contents_of_code_tags.md)


### carton

- [Use carton](carton/use_carton.md)
- [Pass flags to arguments to exec](carton/pass_flags_to_arguments_to_exec.md)
- [Update snapshot cpanfile](carton/update_snapshot_cpanfile.md)


### CPAN

- [Data::FormValidator](cpan/data-formvalidator.md)
- [Test::Pretty](cpan/test-pretty.md)


### cpanm

- [Use cpanm](cpanm/use_cpanm.md)
- [Use cpanm with cpanfile](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_cpanfile.md)
- [Use cpanm with Module::Build](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_module-build.md)
- [Use cpanm with CPAN::Mini](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_cpan-mini.md)
- [Use cpanm with carton](cpanm/use_cpanm_with_carton.md)
- [Tailing cpanm build log file](cpanm/tailing_cpanm_build_logfile.md)


### curl

- [More POST Parameters](curl/more_post_parameters.md)
- [Handling shell sensitive characters in URL](curl/handling_shell_sensitive_characters_in_url.md)


### Debian

- [How to enquire version](debian/how_to_enquire_version.md)
- [Add user to sudoers group](debian/add_user_to_sudoers.md)
- [Resolve conflicting values in Debian package](debian/resolve_conflicting_values_in_package.md)


### Docker

- [Mount shared folder](docker/mount_shared_folder.md)
- [Use shell to inspect filesystem of layer](docker/use_shell_for_layer.md)
- [How to read files and stdout from a running docker container](docker/how_to_read_files_and_stdout_from_a_running_docker_container.md)


### Dropbox

- [# Download instead of playing multimedia file from Dropbox](dropbox/download_multimedia.md)


### httpie

- [Use httpie](httpie/use_httpie.md)


### Jenkins

- [Use a script for freestyle projects](jenkins/use_a_script_for_freestyle_projects.md)


### jq

- [Use jq](jq/use_jq.md)


### FileMerge.app

- [User Filemerge from the commandline](filemergeapp/use_filemerge_from_cli.md)


### Git

- [Resolve conflicts involving binary files](git/resolve_conflicts_involving_binary_files.md)
- [Delete local and remote branch](git/delete_local_and_remote_branch.md)
- [Set your email for a repository](git/set_your_email_for_a_repo.md)
- [Delete local and remote tags](git/delete_local_and_remote_tags.md)
- [Create a branch from a tag](git/create_branch_from_tag.md)
- [Correct a commit message](git/correct_a_commit_message.md)
- [Update a branch from master](git/update_branch_from_master.md)
- [Rename branch](git/rename_branch.md)
- [Get a cheatsheet](git/get_a_cheatsheet.md) 
- [Update fork from original repository](git/update_fork_from_original_repository.md)
- [Tag a specific revision](git/tag_a_specific_revision.md)


### grep

- [Add colour to grep output](grep/add_colour_to_grep.md)


### JSON

- [Beware of eval](json/beware_of_eval.md)


### Liquid Prompt

- [Install Liquid Prompt](liquidprompt/install_liquidprompt.md)


### Mail.app

- [Mail file from the commandline](mailapp/mail_file_from_cli.md)


### Markdown

- [Use Markdown](markdown/use_markdown.md)


### Mojolicious

- [Redirecting from one URL to another](mojolicous/redirecting_from_one_url_to_another.md)
- [Setting up a new application](mojolicious/setting_up_a_new_app.md)
- [Enable logging](mojolicious/enable_logging.md)


### Oracle

- [Convert string to date](oracle/convert_string_to_date.md)
- [ORA-21561: OID generation failed](oracle/ora-21561.md)
- [Beware of for force for creation](oracle/beware_of_force_for_creation.md)
- [How to see Oracle version](oracle/howto_see_oracle_version.md)


### OSX

- [Lock screen shortcuts](osx/lock_screen_shortcuts.md)
- [Speak when long running job is done](osx/speak_when_long_running_job_is_done.md)
- [List available voices for speechsynthesis](osx/list_available_voices_for_speechsynthesis.md)
- [Set hostname permanently](osx/set_hostname_permanently.md)
- [Access iCloud from the cli](osx/access_icloud_drive_from_cli.md)
- [Install Homebrew](osx/install_homebrew.md)

### Perl

- [View generated SQL when using DBIx::Class](perl/view_generated_sql_when_using_dbix-class.md)
- [Create Test Coverage Report Using Dist::Zilla](perl/create_test_coverage_report_uzing_dist-zilla.md)


### Postgresql

- [Setting the prompt](postgresql/setting_the_prompt.md)


### Python

- [Old-school string formatting](python/old-school_string_formatting.md)


### smartcd

- [Install smartcd](smartcd/install_smartcd.md)
- [Use smartcd with tabs](smartcd/use_with_tabs.md)


### Sublime Text 3

- [Set colour scheme per language](sublimetext3/set_colour_scheme_per_language.md)


### Subversion

- [Do something with every repository](subversion/do_something_every_repo.md)
- [See in what revision a branch was created](subversion/see_in_what_revision_was_a_branch_created.md)
- [Use Filemerge as diff tool](subversion/use_filemerge_for_diff.md)
- [Use commit message from file](subversion/use_commit_message_from_file.md)


### SQL Developer

- [Setting UI fontsize](sqldeveloper/setting_ui_fontsize.md)


### SQLite

- [Emulate schemas](sqlite/emulate_schemas.md)
- [Inserting dates](sqlite/insert_dates.md)


### sqlplus

- [Output to a file](sqlplus/outputting_to_a_file.md)


### Swift

- [Learn Swift](swift/learn_swift.md)


### Terminal.app

- [Opening files in an application from the command line](terminal/opening_files_in_applications_from_the_cli.md)


### tmux

- [Install tmux](tmux/install_tmux.md)


### VMware Fusion

- [Install VMware Tools](fusion/install_vmware_tools.md)
- [Configure Debian 7](fusion/mount_shared_folder.md)


### XML

- [Avoid entity expansion](xml/avoid_entity_expansion.md)


### YAML

- [How to syntax check a YAML file](yaml/howto_syntax_check_a_yaml_file.md)


## About

I have for a long time maintained notes in a public wiki, finding the TIL of 
Josh Branchaud [jbranchaud/til](https://github.com/jbranchaud/til) was an eye-opener and I immiediately wanted to try it out, so after a few months I have finally set it up.

I plan to migrate my earlier notes, so they are more easily accessible here as TIL snippets, this will be done when I have the time, one TIL at a time :-)


## Additional TIL Collections

* [Today I Learned by Hashrocket](https://til.hashrocket.com)
* [jwworth/til](https://github.com/jwworth/til)
* [thoughtbot/til](https://github.com/thoughtbot/til)


## License

&copy; 2016 jonasbn

This repository is licensed under the MIT license. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details. Much is lifted from elsewhere and might by copyrighted under other licenses by the respective authors. I will mention this where applicable and I will link to original sources if possible.
